1. Write pseudocode for bubble sort.

FUNCTION bubbleSort(array)
INIT variable swapped to zero
INIT variable n to array length -1
INIT variable x to array
SET swapped to false
FOR i equals 0, i is less than n, increment i 
	IF x at the index of I is less than x at the index of i + 1 THEN
		SET variable temp to the value of x at the index of i
		SET the value of x at the index of i to the value at the index of x + 1
		SET the value of x at the index of i + 1 to temp
		SET swapped to true;
	END IF
END FOR
DECREMENT n
WHILE swapped is true
	RETURN x 
END WHILE
END FUNCTION


2. Write pseudocode for quicksort.

FUNCTION quickSort(array)
IF array length is less than or equal to 1 THEN
	RETURN array
ELSE 
	INIT left, right, and sortedArray to empty arrays
	INIT pivot to the last value of array
	FOR i = 0, i is less than the length of array, increment i
		IF the value of the array at index i is less than pivot
			PUSH the value of the array at index i to left
		ELSE
			PUSH the value of the array at index i to right
		END IF
	END FOR
RETURN concatenated sortedArray plus CALL quickSort(left) plus pivot plus CALL quickSort(right)
END IF
    

3. We talked about time complexity in a previous checkpoint, and how to get an idea of the efficiency of an algorithm. After looking at the pseudocode for the above sorting methods, identify why merge sort and quick sort are much more efficient than the others. Walking through each algorithm with a few sample collections may help.

Bubble sort (#1), because it has a nested loops has a worst-case time complexity of O(n^2).
Quick sort (#2) is recursive and therefore also has a worst-case time complexity of O(n^2).

4. All of the sorts addressed in this checkpoint are known as comparison sorts. Research bucket sort and explain how it works. What is the ideal input for bucket sort?

Bucket sort is a sorting algorithm that relies on putting the elements in an array into separate "buckets," sorting the values in those buckets by calling bucket sort recursively (or utilizing another sort method), and then placing those sorted items back into the original array. The ideal input for bucket sort would be an array with values that are evenly distributed across the length of the array (ex. 1, 3, 5, 9 vs. 1, 1, 567, 566).  
